# Deploying WARs (WAB Generator)

You can create applications as Java EE-style Web Application ARchive (WAR) artifacts or as Java ARchive (JAR) OSGi bundle artifacts. Bean Portlets, PortletMVC4Spring Portlets, and JSF Portlets must be packaged as WARs because their frameworks expect a WAR layout and require Java EE resources such as the `WEB-INF/web.xml` descriptor.

Liferay provides a way for these WAR-styled plugins to be deployed and treated like OSGi modules by Liferay's OSGi runtime. They can be converted to *WABs*.

Liferay DXP supports the OSGi Web Application Bundle (WAB) standard for deployment of Java EE style WARs. A WAB is an archive that has a WAR layout and contains a `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF` file with the `Bundle-SymbolicName` OSGi directive. A WAB is an OSGi bundle. Although the project source has a WAR layout, the artifact filename may end with either the `.jar` or `.war` extension.

## How the WAB Generator Transforms WARs

Liferay only supports the use of WABs that have been auto-generated by the WAB Generator. The WAB Generator transforms a traditional WAR-style plugin into a WAB during deployment. So what exactly does the WAB Generator do to a WAR file to transform it into a WAB?

The WAB Generator detects packages referenced in the plugin WAR's JSPs, descriptor files and classes (in `WEB-INF/classes` and embedded JARs). The descriptor files include `web.xml`, `liferay-web.xml`, `portlet.xml`, `liferay-portlet.xml`, and `liferay-hook.xml`. The WAB Generator verifies whether the detected packages are in the plugin's `WEB-INF/classes` folder or in an embedded JAR in the `WEB-INF/lib` folder. Packages that aren't found in either location are added to an `Import-Package` OSGi header in the WAB's `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF` file.

To import a package that is referenced only in the following types of locations, you must add an `Import-Package` OSGi header to the plugin's `WEB-INF/liferay-plugin-package.properties` file and add the package to that header's list of values:

* Unrecognized descriptor file
* Custom or unrecognized descriptor element or attribute
* Reflection code
* Class loader code

## WAR versus WAB Structure

The WAB folder structure and WAR folder structure differ. Consider the following folder structure of a WAR-style portlet.

**WAR**

* `my-war-portlet`
    * `src`
        * `main`
            * `java`
            * `webapp`
                * `WEB-INF`
                    * `classes`
                    * `lib`
                    * `resources`
                    * `views`
                    * `liferay-display.xml`
                    * `liferay-plugin-package.properties`
                    * `liferay-portlet.xml`
                    * `portlet.xml`
                    * `web.xml`

When a WAR-style portlet is deployed to Liferay and processed by the WAB Generator, the portlet's folder structure is transformed.

**WAB**

* `my-war-portlet-that-is-now-a-wab`
    * `META-INF`
        * `MANIFEST.MF`
    * `WEB-INF`
        * `classes`
        * `lib`
        * `resources`
        * `views`
        * `liferay-display.xml`
        * `liferay-plugin-package.properties`
        * `liferay-portlet.xml`
        * `portlet.xml`
        * `web.xml`

The major difference is the addition of the `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF` file. The WAB Generator automatically generates an OSGi-ready manifest file. If you want to affect the content of the manifest file, you can place Bnd directives and OSGi headers directly into your plugin's `liferay-plugin-package.properties` file.

```note::
   A generated WAB cannot use a manually added ``bnd.bnd`` file or a build-time plugin (e.g., ``bnd-maven-plugin``).
```

## Deploying a WAR

To deploy a WAB based on your WAR plugin, copy your WAR plugin to your Liferay instance's `deploy/` folder in your  [`[Liferay Home]`](../../installation-and-upgrades/reference/liferay-home.md).

## Saving a Copy of the WAB

Optionally, save the WAB to a local folder. This gives you the opportunity to inspect the generated WAB. To store generated WABs, add the following [portal properties](../../installation-and-upgrades/reference/portal-properties.md) to a `[Liferay Home]/portal-ext.properties` file. Then restart the Liferay server:

```properties
module.framework.web.generator.generated.wabs.store=true
module.framework.web.generator.generated.wabs.store.dir=${module.framework.base.dir}/wabs
```

These properties instruct the WAB generator to store generated WABs in your installation's `osgi/wabs/` folder. The generated WABs have the same structure as the example WAB structure above. The [Module Framework Web Application Bundles](https://docs.liferay.com/dxp/portal/7.3-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html#Module%20Framework%20Web%20Application%20Bundles) properties section explains more details.

Awesome! You can deploy your WAR plugin as a WAB and you know how to save a copy of the WAB to examine it!

## Additional Information

* [JARs Excluded from WABs](./jars-excluded-from-wabs.md)
* [Resolving Third Party Library Package Dependencies](../../liferay-internals/fundamentals/configuring-dependencies/resolving-third-party-library-package-dependencies.md)
* [Module Lifecycle](../../liferay-internals/architecture/module-lifecycle.md)