## Configure Your Liferay DXP Stack Module Quiz

1. What is the simplest way to configure DXP?<br />
    A. Changing portal.properties.<br />
    B. Replacing the portal-ext.properties file with the portal-setup-wizard.properties file.<br />
    C. Adding custom .config files.<br />
    D. Changing configurations through the UI.<br />

2. The first time you start DXP several necessary tables and data are generated by a database script.<br /> 
    A. True<br />
    B. False

3. Which of the following is a property file for Liferay DXP? (Choose three.)<br />
    A. portal.properties<br />
    B. setup.properties<br />
    C. configuration.properties<br />
    D. portal-ext.properties<br />
    E. portal-setup-wizard.properties

4. Which of the following statements about .config files is false? (Choose two.)<br />
    A. .config files can be used to export and manage any configuration changes outside of Liferay DXP.<br />
    B. .config files are named based on general settings.<br />
    C. .config files perform the same function as properties files.<br />
    D. Many .config files will be generated upon export after changing meltiple settings for different applications at different scopes.<br />
    E. Inside a .config file you can see the details of whichever setting you configured for an application at that scope.

5. Each instance of Liferay DXP can only have one Documents and Media repository.<br /> 
    A. True<br />
    B. False

<div class="page"></div>

## Answer Key 

1. D.
2. True
3. A, D, E
4. B, C
5. False
