# Liferay Talend Components Overview

Liferay's Talend Components make it easier to import/export data when you are using Talend Open Studio for data integration jobs. You can use it between Liferay/DXP Portal and other external systems (eg. MySQL, SAP, Salesforce). As of 7.4.x, these components are part of the [Liferay DXP/Portal codebase](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/tree/master/modules/etl/talend/talend-definition/src/main/java/com/liferay/talend) and must be built and added into Talend Open Studio. Once added, you can use these components to design Talend [Jobs](https://help.talend.com/r/lqV2ftgSbYSEBU9Bwsd61w/eAVXNKXfys1ji9dujoRfrg) that connect to Liferay and perform ETL operations along with other Talend components.

Liferay's Talend Components can connect to both out-of-the-box Headless APIs and any custom APIs developed using RESTBuilder. All components require a defined Headless API endpoint, and each endpoint path must begin with `/headless-` (e.g.,`/headless-delivery-api`) and include a proper version sub-path (e.g.,`/headless-commerce-admin-catalog/v1.0`, `/headless-commerce-delivery-catalog/v1.0`).

## Liferay Talend Components

* Liferay Connection Component ([`tLiferayConnection`](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/blob/master/modules/etl/talend/talend-definition/src/main/java/com/liferay/talend/tliferayconnection/TLiferayConnectionDefinition.java)): This component establishes connection with a Liferay DXP/Portal instance that can be used by the other components. Its Liferay Host URL value should be set to the root domain (e.g., `http://localhost:8080`, `https://yourserver.com`).
* Liferay Input Component ([`tLiferayInput`](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/blob/master/modules/etl/talend/talend-definition/src/main/java/com/liferay/talend/tliferayinput/TLiferayInputDefinition.java)): This component submits GET requests to the configured Headless API endpoint. It then receives data, converts it to the schema described by the OpenAPI specification, and passes it forward in the defined Talend data flow.
* Liferay Output Component ([`tLiferayOutput`](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/blob/master/modules/etl/talend/talend-definition/src/main/java/com/liferay/talend/tliferayoutput/TLiferayOutputDefinition.java)): This component receives data from a defined Talend input, converts it to the schema described by the OpenAPI specification, and submits POST/PUT requests to the configured Headless API endpoint.
* Liferay Batch File ([`tLiferayBatchFile`](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/blob/master/modules/etl/talend/talend-definition/src/main/java/com/liferay/talend/tliferaybatchfile/TLiferayBatchFileDefinition.java)): This component receives data and formats it according to the schema described by the OpenAPI specification. It then aggregates this data into a JSON line batch file.
* Liferay Batch Output File ([`tLiferayBatchOutput`](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/blob/master/modules/etl/talend/talend-definition/src/main/java/com/liferay/talend/tliferaybatchoutput/TLiferayBatchOutputDefinition.java)): This component submits a JSON batch file to the defined headless-batch-engine endpoint. While it can receive this batch file from the `tLiferayBatchFile` component, it can also receive and submit batch files from different components.

With these components, you can create and run complex data flow management processes in Talend Open Studio. See [Installing Liferay Talend Components](./installing-liferay-talend-components.md) for detailed installation instructions.

## Additional Information

* [Installing Liferay Talend Components](./installing-liferay-talend-components.md)
* [Designing Talend Jobs Using Liferay Talend Components](./designing-talend-jobs-using-liferay-talend-components.md)